Page 8 of 17
Library
Enteloot amount +50%
5 bricks + 5 planks + 2 kiln-glass
2500
5 ticks
School
6000

All civic upgrade prerequisites are evaluated per town. For example, a Rec-center requiring one
production upgrade, or a Fire-station requiring two production upgrades, must satisfy those
prerequisites in the same town where the civic upgrade is being built.

If multiple Enteloot amount bonuses are active on a town (for example Rec-center, School, and
Library), their percentage bonuses are added together before being applied. If a production
upgrade or upkeep effect also modifies Enteloot generation, those effects are applied in addition to
the combined percentage bonus.

The police-station requires iron-fittings and is therefore only buildable from Level 3.

Tools (Level 3+)

Tools are craftable items that act as permanent buffs for the rest of the run. They are never sold,
are not consumed, and each tool can be crafted at most once per run. Tool crafting follows the
standard craft timing rule (2 ticks, 1 with crafting affinity).

Tool Inputs Effect
Boots 2 iron-fittings + 2 rope All travel times reduced by 1 tick (minimum 1) per edge
Pickaxe 2 iron-fittings + 2 planks All gather times reduced by 1 tick (minimum 1)

Because both tools require iron-fittings, acquiring them means a trip to a Mine node first. Tools
change the effective weights of the map, so routes worth planning before boots may not be the
routes worth planning after.

Activities

All activities consume ticks and can only be performed if all prerequisites are met at execution time.

Activity Where Ticks Description
Travel Between connected vertices Edge weight Move to a connected town or node. Fast routes charge a toll.
Buy At any town 1 Buy resources the town produces, at buy price.
Sell At any town 1 Sell raw resources at their global sell price, or crafted goods at the current town's item-rate. Every town supports selling every crafted good.
Craft At any town 2 per item (1 with crafting affinity) Convert resources into recipe items or components. Quantity n costs n × craft time and n sets of inputs.
Build At any town Per upgrade Consume components and Enteloot to construct an upgrade at this town.
Gather At a resource node Node gather-time (2, or 3 at mines) Perform the node's gathering activity and receive its yield.
Upkeep At any town 5 Doubles the current town's Enteloot production for 50 ticks. Triggering again while active refreshes the duration rather than stacking the multiplier.

Levels

Each level file defines the characteristics of the run, including the map, towns, nodes, recipes,
upgrades, and run parameters. Each level adds new factors while building on the previous ones (i.e.
Level 2 contains the rules from Level 1, in addition to its own).

Data organisation: Resources, Recipes, Construction Components, Upgrades, and Tools (the
tables under Constraints) are global constants: their definitions are identical across every level and
are not part of the level JSON file. A level file varies only run parameters, towns, nodes, and routes
(see the JSON level file example); which mechanics are enabled (crafting, building, fast routes,
mines, tools, upkeep) is determined by the level number itself, not by per-level data.

Level 1
Basic rules to help you get familiar with the problem. Crafting and Building are disabled. Your focus
will be on the following:
• Navigating the map and reading edge weights.
• Choosing between waiting for town trickle, travelling to gather at nodes, and buying outright.
• Selling resources at the towns that produce them least.
• Managing the tick budget across travel, gathering, and trading.

Level 2
Crafting and Building are introduced. In addition to Level 1, focus on:
• Crafting resources into goods and hauling them to the towns that pay most.
• Crafting construction components and their dependency chains.
• Building production upgrades early enough that their boosted trickle pays back.
• Sequencing civic upgrades through their prerequisites to drive score.

Level 3
Fast routes, Mine nodes, and tools are introduced. In addition to previous levels, focus on:
• Deciding when a toll is worth the ticks it saves.
• Gathering ore at Mine nodes, the only resource that cannot be bought.
• Crafting iron-fittings to unlock tools and the police-station.
• Investing early ticks in boots or a pickaxe to compound savings over the rest of the run.
• Re-planning routes as tools change the effective weights of the map.

Level 4
Upkeep is introduced on the widest map. In addition to previous levels, focus on:
• Deciding when spending 5 ticks on an upkeep boost pays back in extra Enteloot production.
• Choosing which towns to boost, and timing boosts over high-value production windows.
• Weighing upkeep-boost ticks against construction and trade for the final score.

Scoring

All scoring inputs are taken from the state at the final tick, except invested Enteloot, which
accumulates during the run.

Level 1
Contribution to the score is your generation of Enteloot, as well as the value of the items you hold
at the end. A multiplier will be applied based on the number of items you sold.

Level 2 & Level 3
Infrastructure becomes the primary driver. Development spread across towns earns a multiplier.

Level 4
Upkeep activity is unlocked. Upkeep does not add a dedicated scoring term; it affects the base
score only indirectly: the 5 ticks spent triggering a boost raise a town's Enteloot production (and
thus overall Enteloot), but those ticks are unavailable for travel, gathering, crafting, or trading
elsewhere.

Submissions

Participants must submit one solution per level on the Entelect Hackathon website. Each
submission must include:
• A ZIP containing the source code used for that level
• A .txt file containing the JSON output for that level

The solution must be deterministic: given the same input, the program must always produce the
same output. During validation, the submitted source code will be executed to reproduce the
results provided in the submission. If the source code does not produce the same output as the
submitted file, the submission will be considered invalid.

The .txt file must contain a valid JSON object describing the ordered list of actions for the run:
{
"actions": [
{ "type": "travel", "destination": "N1" },
{ "type": "gather" },
{ "type": "gather" },
{ "type": "travel", "destination": "Demacia" },
{ "type": "craft", "item": "bread", "quantity": 3 },
{ "type": "travel", "destination": "Piltover" },
{ "type": "sell", "item": "bread", "quantity": 3 },
{ "type": "buy", "item": "fish", "quantity": 4 },
{ "type": "craft", "item": "fish-n-chips", "quantity": 2 },
{ "type": "sell", "item": "fish-n-chips", "quantity": 2 },
{ "type": "build", "upgrade": "farmhouse" }
]
}

Action fields:
travel: destination, fast (optional, default false)
gather: none (uses the current node's activity)
buy: item, quantity
sell: item, quantity
craft: item, quantity
build: upgrade
upkeep: none (boosts the current town)

Submission validity: The submission is rejected outright with a score of 0, and nothing is
simulated, if the .txt file is not valid JSON or if the top-level actions key is missing or is not an
array. Once a well-formed actions array exists, every entry in it is handled per Assumption 4: An
entry missing a required field for its type, with a field of the wrong type, or with an unrecognized
type, is simply an invalid action - skipped, 1 tick consumed, logged, and the run continues.

The engine returns a per-action log showing ticks consumed, resources and Enteloot gained or
spent, and running totals, so you can analyse your inputs against the outcome received.

Worked Example

Starting at Demacia (wheat trickle 2 per 10 ticks) with 200 Enteloot. Node N1 (Fields, yield 6) is 2
ticks away. Piltover pays 40 per bread and is 3 ticks from Demacia.

# Action Ticks Running tick Enteloot Inventory
1 travel N1 2 2 200 0
2 gather 2 4 200 6 wheat
3 gather 2 6 200 12 wheat
4 travel Demacia 2 8 200 12 wheat
5 craft bread ×4 4 12 200 4 bread
6 travel Piltover 3 15 200 4 bread
7 sell bread ×4 1 16 360 0

Sixteen ticks turn 12 gathered wheat into 160 Enteloot of profit. Selling the raw wheat instead
would have earned 24. Crafting and hauling multiplied the return by more than six times, and
crafting at the affinity town rather than at Piltover saved 4 ticks.

Calculations & Algorithms
Accumulated trickle at any tick:
accumulated = floor(current_tick / rate) × amount

Ticks to fulfil a recipe from a node trip, useful for route planning:
trip_ticks = travel_to_node + ceil(inputs_needed / node_yield) × gather_time + travel_back + quantity × craft_time
where craft_time is 2, or 1 at a town with crafting affinity.

Penalties
You will incur penalties for the following:
• Invalid actions are skipped and consume 1 tick. Time is the scarcest resource; wasted
ticks are the penalty.
• Fast route tolls are charged on entry. Attempting a fast route without sufficient Enteloot is
an invalid action.

Ideas
Transportation Buildings
Upgrade Effect Components Enteloot Build time Prerequisite Score value
Stable Unlocks Horse travel. Travel time − 2 (minimum 2 ticks). 6 planks + 2 bricks + 2 rope 900 4 ticks Any 1 Civic upgrade 2,500
Port Unlocks Port travel. Travel time − 5 (minimum 2 ticks). 8 planks + 6 bricks + 2 iron + 2 rope + 1 Net 1,600 6 ticks Stable 5,000
Railway Station Unlocks Train travel. Travel time − 8 (minimum 2 ticks). 12 bricks + 8 Stone-blocks + 6 Iron-fittings + 4 Kiln-glass 3,000 8 ticks Pier 8,500

Unlimited Upgrades
Possibly allow unlimited upgrades per town instead of just one of each per town.

Other distribution multiplier equation
distribution_multiplier = number_of_upgrades/total_number_of_possible_upgrades

Bonus for Upkeep/Boosting
Add a bonus to level 4 to encourage boosting so that it is mot ignored entirely.

Research affinity
Re-look at what research affinity is, and what it does. (A research affinity reduces Research
resource costs at that town). , add this in specification.txt and finetiune teh game to it
